1. Yast Enterprise Proxy (YEP) Product Requirements (0.6)

Concept: the product is aiming to be a local replacement for NCC and NU
functionality. The customer need not face per-machine downloads and the 
bandwidth charges that go with it, nor needs to open the firewall for
outbound communication to permit these downloads.

The product is used as integral part of our renewal strategy, by enabling 
customers (or a Novell auditing team) to easily run reports on how many 
entitlements they are currently using and need renewal.

The product is to ship concurrenty to Code 10 SP2, but it is a separate
deliverable, packaged as an add-on product.

The product will support the following clients: 
code 10 Sp2 GA and subsequent releases, all architectures, all NU/NCC-based
products.

The product will not support the following clients:
code 9
code 10 GA
code 10 Sp1

+ The rationale for not supporting platform releases preceding sp2 is twofold:
+ firstly, wish to reduce engineering cost impact. Secondly, customers need
+ not such a product for code 9, where Yast incorporates a mirroring component
+ and where it would be an unlikely scenario for the proxy to be deployed in 
+ an sp4 or sp5 timeline, where customers are already set in their mode of 
+ operation and should be looking at migrating to code 10 instead.
+ The objective is for customers to look at deployment of YEP synchronously 
+ with their deployment os SLE 10 Sp2, which renders support for code 10 GA and
+ Sp1 redundant and a zero-return preposition.

However, it is intended that starting with Sp2, any tool used to interact 
with NCC/NU (ZMD/zypp and clients, zypper, suse_register, etc) will work 
locally with the proxy where possible. The product provides a package 
repository and a registration target on a locally-based host, and facilities
to parse the accounting data and configure the repository as necessary.

Furthermore, as generically management products (ZMD server, tivoli, etc) 
enable bypassing of open source entitlement systems (NCC, RHN, etc), we wish 
to facilitate customer compliance by providing an easy way for the customer
to count how many entitlements of Novell products are being used locally. 
This is an _accounting_ facilitation, to help both the customer and/or a
Novell consulting team on-site determine quickly these numbers. It is _not_
an enforcement tool.

We additionally wish to preserve a default behavior that syncs-up to NCC both 
entitlement data and hardware information.

-----[SLE 10 SP2 timeframe] 

    0       (M) : The overall design criterion is to provide an endpoint as
                  similar to having a local copy of NCC/NU as possible _for
                  tools making use of their interfaces_ (clarification: 
                  providing a local NCC webUI is NOT in scope, providing the
                  NCC interfaces for suse_register is).

    1.1     (M) : YEP is to provide a local registration target for a 
                  suse_register invocation explicitly requesting contact
                  with it (by hostname or IP address).
                  
    1.2     (M) : YEP is to provide a local administrator with tallies of how
                  many systems are registered against it. Registration date, 
                  Last check-in (used to detect no longer existing systems), 
+                 IP address, and systemID are the minimally necessary data 
                  that an administrator is to be provided.
                  
    1.3     (M) : Default behavior is to collect systemIDs and all information
                  that suse-register commonly delivers to NCC and forward this 
                  information back to NCC server ("syncing with NCC"). This
                  functionality is not cached but it is pass-through: if the
                  functionality is not disabled (see 1.4), the information is
                  immediately synced, otherwise, appropriate accounting data is
                  collected locally and no NCC sync-up of the transaction will 
                  ever occur.
                  
+                 Clarification: if the sync-up is disabled, registration 
+                 transactions occuring during that time will *never* be reported
+                 back to NCC ("no caching"). In the event sync-up is then enabled,
+                 only registrations *subsequent* to said enabling will be synced. 
                  
    1.4     (M) : 1.3 can be disabled by a privacy-conscious customer for
+                 reasons solely at the customer's discretion. 1.2 functionality
+                 cannot be disabled.
                  
    1.5     (M) : YEP is to provide a local package repository regularly 
                  syncing to NU.novell.com via an included mirroring tool 
                  and expose the updates that the customer has access to 
                  in NU in a tree structure mirroring that of NU, but pruned
                  of those architecture or product branches that the customer 
                  has no entitlement to.
                  
    1.6     (I) : Running suse_register against the proxy should return the 
                  appropriate channels for the product registering (as it does
                  in a registration against NCC). Default behavior. (implementation
                  note: hard?).
                  
    1.7     (M) : The local admin should be able to configure what channels 
                  registering a product via running suse_register against the 
                  proxy should return. (scenario: the local admin wants to 
                  add her own local tools channel). This overrides the default 
                  specified at 1.6 when used.
                  
    1.8     (I) : A Yast configuration UI for the Enterprise Proxy is 
                  to supplement unix-style file-based configuration.

    1.9     (M) : Add-on product for SLES 10 sp2, x86 and x86_64. No Power, 
                  Itanium or s390 will host the server. 
                 
    1.9     (M) : Clients can connect from all supported SLE architectures 
                  and products.

+   1.10    (I) : Yep Should retrieve the currently valid entitlement counts
+                 from NCC per-product (SLES, SLED, ...) and send e-mail alerts
+                 to locally configured e-mail addresses (administrative contact,
+                 operations contact) indicating when those totals were exceeded
+                 by devices (by ID) checking in during a configurable time window
+                 (which defaults to 24 hours).
                  
-----[SLE 11 timeframe]    

    1.1     (M) : patchlevel support as provided by the 11 update stack is to
                  sync-up to NCC as hardware and systemID information.
                  

    
	
----- reference use cases:
(1) Customers who have bandwidth concerns
(2) Customers who have outbound firewall piercing concerns


------ legend:
(M) : Mandatory    |   rank = number in [0-5] indicating precedence. In staffing, schedule discussion with Engineering, PM
(R) : Rejected     |   will cut rank 5 before rank 4, and so on. 2 is default. Rank is used exclusively by PM during PRD 
(I) : Important    |   drafting, Engineering is bound by M, R, I in finalized PRD.